This is supposed to be a simple game, a turn-based, combat rpg with mechanics akin to stuff like Dragon Quest or Pokemon; 
the scope can increase later.

Initially, the user will be placed in a default location instance, they should be able to travel to other instances from here.

I would call this location 'home base' for now, it might see other functionality later.

From 'home base', the user should be able to travel to a location called 'the arena'

'the arena' should have two functions, the ability to initiate fights with slimes, and the ability to look at battle related statistics.

Initiating a fight will have the user battle a slime, where you have the options to 'punch', 'cower', 'analyze', or 'run'.

The user and the slime both have speed, attack, defence and health stats; each slime type has a unique skillset that can do different things.

'punch' attempts to lower the slimes hp, 'cower' is an attempt to minimize the result of the slime's move, run is an
attempt to escape combat, and 'analyze' can give you information about the slime that will be placed in a beastiary.

When you first fight a new type of slime, you won't know what it looks like unless you use time to analyze it during combat.
Even after you know what it looks like, you won't have all of the details like its lore and moveset alligned with it right away.
The beastiary already all of those entries unlocked, but the user has to place them with a picture of the correct slime.

After that, the name will appear above the slime during combat.

Going back to 'the arena', statistics shows you're number of kills for each slime type, unanalyzed slimes appear as '???', 
a functionality for achieving certain kill streaks would be great.

Lastly there should be a leveling system, something that'll raise stats, for now it'll be an average one, killing slimes gives xp towards levels.
Xp gain should have a detrimental effect for fighting lower-level things, eventually when you're strong enough you'll win fights against
certain types automatically but with no xp gain.

There should be items or currency, that's a later objective.

For now, no items and the user will heal after every arena fight.
